README.md, before:

﻿<img align="left" width="170" height="100" src=".github/fc-logo.png" />

# FarmerConnect.Azure

<br />

This repository holds all the packages that have been standardized inside of FarmerConnect SA on how to use different Azure resources and patterns.

# FarmerConnect.Azure.Storage

[![NuGet Package Build](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-storage.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-storage.yml)

```powershell
dotnet add package FarmerConnect.Azure.Storage
```

## Blob storage

We are using the same Storage Account for multiple entities (organizations) we shall separate the files in a container per entity. This means that every entity needs to have their own container. When creating a new container through the `BlobStorageService` a new SAS Token is created and the container address will be returned. When you want to upload or read a blob from that storage you need to pass the proper container address.

### Getting started

Inside the `Startup.cs` add the following line of code to the `ConfigureServices` method to add the blob storage services:

```csharp
services.AddBlobStorage(options =>
{
    options.ConnectionString = Configuration.GetConnectionString("AzureStorage");
});
```

You can now inject the `BlobStorageService` into your business logic to connect to the blob containers.

## Table Storage [WIP]

Coming soon...

# FarmerConnect.Azure.Messaging

[![NuGet Package Build](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-messaging.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-messaging.yml)

This package has all you need to start off implementing a messaging pattern with Azure Service Bus. When adding the package and configuring the messaging using the extension method a background worker will register the consumer service.

Add the package to the project that requires this functionality.

```powershell
dotnet add package FarmerConnect.Azure.Messaging
```

### Configuration

Add the consumer and / or the sender services by using the extension methods from the package inside of the `Startup.cs`.

```csharp
var azureServiceBusOptions = new AzureServiceBusOptions
{
    ConnectionString = Configuration["AzureServiceBus:ConnectionString"];
    QueueName = Configuration["AzureServiceBus:Queuename"];
};

services.AddMessagingConsumer(azureServiceBusOptions);
services.AddMessagingSender(azureServiceBusOptions);
```

Register all the event handlers with the DI system of ASP.NET Core so that dependencies can be used.

```csharp
// Add event handlers so that they can be resolved (Transient or Scoped)
services.AddTransient<AcceptEventHandler>();
```

After defining the events and event handlers we need to register them with the `EventSubscriptionManager`. The easiest way to do this is by adding a background service that will be executed at the application startup and registers the events and event handlers.

```csharp
public class EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService : IHostedService
{
    private readonly EventBusSubscriptionManager _subscriptionManager;
    private readonly ILogger<EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService> _logger;

    public EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService(EventBusSubscriptionManager subscriptionManager, ILogger<EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService> logger)
    {
        _subscriptionManager = subscriptionManager;
        _logger = logger;
    }

    public Task StartAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        _subscriptionManager.Subscribe<AcceptEvent, AcceptEventHandler>();

        _logger.LogInformation("Completed event handler registration");

        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }

    public Task StopAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

### Events

Events are classes that inherit from `IntegrationEvent`. Events are the payload that will be sent to the service bus queue in a serialized manner and can then be used by the consumer to do what ever they need to do.

```csharp
public class AcceptEvent : IntegrationEvent
{
    public string TransactionId { get; set; }
}
```

### Event handlers
Event handlers need to be registered with the DI System so that they can be instantiated during runtime. Also they need to be registered with the subscription manager. It is possible to use any service that was registered through the DI system. But keep in mind there is no user context asscociated with the event handler. Event handlers need to implemente the `IIntegrationEventHandler`. It is possible to have multiple event handlers for the same event.

```csharp
public class AcceptEventHandler : IIntegrationEventHandler
{
    private readonly ILogger<AcceptEventHandler> _logger;

    public AcceptEventHandler(ILogger<AcceptEventHandler> logger)
    {
        _logger = logger;
    }

    public async Task Handle(object @event)
    {
        var integrationEvent = (AcceptEvent)@event;

        _logger.LogInformation("Doing the stuff for {TransactionId}...", integrationEvent.TransactionId);
        await Task.Delay(6000);
        _logger.LogInformation("...finished the stuff.");
    }
}
```

# Add GitHub to NuGet sources

We are using the GitHub NuGet feed. To be able to access it you need to add this feed to your NuGet Config file. Because the packages might be private you will need to provide a PAT (Personal Access Token). You can get your PAT from your GitHub profile.

Then run the following command: 

```powershell
dotnet nuget add source --username USERNAME --password PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN --name farmerconnect-github "https://nuget.pkg.github.com/farmerconnect/index.json"
```

Replace `USERNAME` and `PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` with your values.

# Source Link

This repository has source link enabled. This enables stepping into the code of this NuGet Package. Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/sourcelink) if required.

# License

Check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file

Commit message:

Add Table Storage support (#12)
* Add implementation for Table Storage

* Update to dotnet 6

* Add tests to Table Storage

* Update readme

* Format code

* Manually set github actions tu use .NET 6.0-rc2

* Add include-prerelease to actions

* Code review

* Update dotnet format

* Try to fix build by including allow-prerelease flag

* Format code

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: Matteo <matteo@farmerconnect.com>

* Improve some tests. Skip those that depend on batch (not supported in Azurite right now)

* Update readme. Format code.

* Fix Azurite run command

* Update dependencies

* Instantiate Azurite with all services

* Separate Storage tests and remove return from add methods

Co-authored-by: Matteo <matteo@farmerconnect.com>

README.md, after:

﻿<img align="left" width="170" height="100" src=".github/fc-logo.png" />

# FarmerConnect.Azure

<br />

This repository holds all the packages that have been standardized inside of FarmerConnect SA on how to use different Azure resources and patterns.

# FarmerConnect.Azure.Storage

[![NuGet Package Build](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-storage.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-storage.yml)

```powershell
dotnet add package FarmerConnect.Azure.Storage
```

## Blob storage

We are using the same Storage Account for multiple entities (organizations) we shall separate the files in a container per entity. This means that every entity needs to have their own container. When creating a new container through the `BlobStorageService` a new SAS Token is created and the container address will be returned. When you want to upload or read a blob from that storage you need to pass the proper container address.

### Getting started

Inside the `Startup.cs` add the following line of code to the `ConfigureServices` method to add the blob storage services:

```csharp
services.AddBlobStorage(options =>
{
    options.ConnectionString = Configuration.GetConnectionString("AzureStorage");
});
```

You can now inject the `BlobStorageService` into your business logic to connect to the blob containers.

## Table Storage

Table Storage is to be used whenever a use for unstructured tabular data comes into place. A good representation of this use case is non-standardized CSV files.
This storage relies on direct access by row or aggregation by partition key. In case a use case requires filtering by specific fields, this SDK should be extended to accept it. When creating a new table through the `TableStorageService` a new SAS Token is created and the container address will be returned. When you want to add or read from that table you need to pass the proper table address. For reference on design best practices for Table Storage: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/tables/table-storage-design

### Getting started

Inside the `Startup.cs` add the following line of code to the `ConfigureServices` method to add the table storage services:

```csharp
services.AddTableStorage(options =>
{
    options.ConnectionString = Configuration.GetConnectionString("TableStorage");
});
```

You can now inject the `TableStorageService` into your business logic to connect to the tables.


# FarmerConnect.Azure.Messaging

[![NuGet Package Build](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-messaging.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/farmerconnect/FarmerConnect.Azure/actions/workflows/workflow-messaging.yml)

This package has all you need to start off implementing a messaging pattern with Azure Service Bus. When adding the package and configuring the messaging using the extension method a background worker will register the consumer service.

Add the package to the project that requires this functionality.

```powershell
dotnet add package FarmerConnect.Azure.Messaging
```

### Configuration

Add the consumer and / or the sender services by using the extension methods from the package inside of the `Startup.cs`.

```csharp
var azureServiceBusOptions = new AzureServiceBusOptions
{
    ConnectionString = Configuration["AzureServiceBus:ConnectionString"];
    QueueName = Configuration["AzureServiceBus:Queuename"];
};

services.AddMessagingConsumer(azureServiceBusOptions);
services.AddMessagingSender(azureServiceBusOptions);
```

Register all the event handlers with the DI system of ASP.NET Core so that dependencies can be used.

```csharp
// Add event handlers so that they can be resolved (Transient or Scoped)
services.AddTransient<AcceptEventHandler>();
```

After defining the events and event handlers we need to register them with the `EventSubscriptionManager`. The easiest way to do this is by adding a background service that will be executed at the application startup and registers the events and event handlers.

```csharp
public class EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService : IHostedService
{
    private readonly EventBusSubscriptionManager _subscriptionManager;
    private readonly ILogger<EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService> _logger;

    public EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService(EventBusSubscriptionManager subscriptionManager, ILogger<EventBusRegistrationBackgroundService> logger)
    {
        _subscriptionManager = subscriptionManager;
        _logger = logger;
    }

    public Task StartAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        _subscriptionManager.Subscribe<AcceptEvent, AcceptEventHandler>();

        _logger.LogInformation("Completed event handler registration");

        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }

    public Task StopAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

### Events

Events are classes that inherit from `IntegrationEvent`. Events are the payload that will be sent to the service bus queue in a serialized manner and can then be used by the consumer to do what ever they need to do.

```csharp
public class AcceptEvent : IntegrationEvent
{
    public string TransactionId { get; set; }
}
```

### Event handlers
Event handlers need to be registered with the DI System so that they can be instantiated during runtime. Also they need to be registered with the subscription manager. It is possible to use any service that was registered through the DI system. But keep in mind there is no user context asscociated with the event handler. Event handlers need to implemente the `IIntegrationEventHandler`. It is possible to have multiple event handlers for the same event.

```csharp
public class AcceptEventHandler : IIntegrationEventHandler
{
    private readonly ILogger<AcceptEventHandler> _logger;

    public AcceptEventHandler(ILogger<AcceptEventHandler> logger)
    {
        _logger = logger;
    }

    public async Task Handle(object @event)
    {
        var integrationEvent = (AcceptEvent)@event;

        _logger.LogInformation("Doing the stuff for {TransactionId}...", integrationEvent.TransactionId);
        await Task.Delay(6000);
        _logger.LogInformation("...finished the stuff.");
    }
}
```

# Add GitHub to NuGet sources

We are using the GitHub NuGet feed. To be able to access it you need to add this feed to your NuGet Config file. Because the packages might be private you will need to provide a PAT (Personal Access Token). You can get your PAT from your GitHub profile.

Then run the following command: 

```powershell
dotnet nuget add source --username USERNAME --password PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN --name farmerconnect-github "https://nuget.pkg.github.com/farmerconnect/index.json"
```

Replace `USERNAME` and `PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` with your values.

# Source Link

This repository has source link enabled. This enables stepping into the code of this NuGet Package. Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/sourcelink) if required.

# License

Check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file
